DOM - Document support for bulk CRUD operations of DomInstances (RN 37891) (#2339)
SkylineCommunications/dataminer-docs: user-guide/Advanced_Modules/DOM/DomHelper_class.md

You can then call the *Create*, *Read*, *Update*, or *Delete* methods on the CRUD helper components of the helper.

> [!NOTE]

> > When multiple `DomInstances` need processing, from DataMiner 10.4.2 onwards [calls are available](xref:DomHelper_class#multiple-instances) to do so in one go.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> When multiple `DomInstances` need processing, from DataMiner 10.4.2/10.5.0 onwards [calls are available](xref:DomHelper_class#multiple-instances) to do so in one go.
```

}
```

### Multiple instances

> When multiple `DomInstances` need to get create, updated or deleted, it's recommended to call the *CreateOrUpdate* or *Delete* methods on a `DomInstance` CRUD helper component, with a list of those `DomInstances`. This feature is available from DataMiner 10.4.2 onwards. More information and best practices on how to use these calls is available [in these examples](xref:DOM_BulkProcessing_Example).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When multiple `DomInstances` need to get create, updated or deleted, it is recommended to call the *CreateOrUpdate* or *Delete* methods on a `DomInstance` CRUD helper component, with a list of those `DomInstances`. This feature is available from DataMiner 10.4.2/10.5.0 onwards. More information and best practices on how to use these calls is available [in these examples](xref:DOM_BulkProcessing_Example).
```

When the operation fails for one of the `DomInstances`, the result of those calls will contain the necessary information.

> When calling `CreateOrUpdate`, the result will contain a list of `DomInstance` that were successfully created or updated. The trace data is available per token ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When calling `CreateOrUpdate`, the result will contain a list of `DomInstances` that were successfully created or updated. The trace data is available per token ID.
```

> When calling `CreateOrUpdate`, the result will contain a list of `DomInstances` that were successfully created or updated. The trace data is available per token ID.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When calling `CreateOrUpdate`, the result will contain a list of `DomInstances` that were successfully created or updated. The trace data is available per `DomInstance` ID.
```

> When calling `Delete` with a list of `DomInstances`, the result will contain a list of `DomInstance` IDs that were successfully deleted. Also here the trace data is available per token ID.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When calling `Delete` with a list of `DomInstances`, the result will contain a list of `DomInstance` IDs that were successfully deleted. Also here the trace data is available per `DomInstance` ID.
```

If an issue occurs when any item gets created or updated or deleted (e.g. validation), no exception will be thrown (even when `ThrowExceptionsOnErrorData` is true). The result of the call can used to check for which `DomInstances` the call failed. Next to that the trace data of that call is available and will contain the trace data for all processed `DomInstances`.

> If however the entire operation would fail (e.g. when the storage layer would fail while storing the data) a `CrudFailedException` is thrown. If, in that case, `ThrowExceptionsOnErrorData` was set to false a `DataMinerException` will be thrown instead and the `TraceData` of the last call should be checked to get more details about the issue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If however the entire operation would fail (e.g. when the storage layer would fail while storing the data) a `CrudFailedException` is thrown. If, in that case, `ThrowExceptionsOnErrorData` was set to false, a `DataMinerException` will be thrown instead and the `TraceData` of the last call should be checked to get more details about the issue.
```

#### Maximum amount

> Since these calls might trigger related actions (such as launching script actions), it might cause a high load on the system when a lot of instances are involved. A soft limit of 100 `DomInstances` is set, to make sure those bulk operations are implemented with scalability in mind. When a higher amount of instances should be processed, consider splitting those up in batches.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since these calls might trigger related actions (such as launching script actions), it might cause a high load on the system when a lot of instances are involved. A limit of 100 `DomInstances` is set, to make sure those bulk operations are implemented with scalability in mind. When a higher amount of instances should be processed, consider splitting those up in batches.
```

> The maximum amount of items allowed on to the `CreateOrUpdate` or `Delete` calls, is available in the `MaxAmountBulkOperation` property on a `DomInstance` CRUD helper component. If a larger amount was provided the calls will fail with a `DomInstanceCrudMaxAmountExceededArgumentException` and it's message will state how many items were provided.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The number of maximum items that are allowed for the `CreateOrUpdate` or `Delete` calls, is available in the `MaxAmountBulkOperation` property on a `DomInstance` CRUD helper component. If a larger amount was provided the calls will fail with a `DomInstanceCrudMaxAmountExceededArgumentException` and its message will state how many items were provided.
```
This needs a code example. People probably don't know what a CRUD helper component is.

- When `Delete` is called with a list of `DomInstances`, the result will contain a list of `DomInstance` IDs that were successfully deleted. The trace data is also available per `DomInstance` ID.

If an issue occurs when an item gets created, updated, or deleted (e.g. validation), no exception will be thrown (even when `ThrowExceptionsOnErrorData` is *true*). The result of the call can be used to check for which `DomInstances` the call succeeded or failed. In addition, the trace data of that call is available and will contain the trace data for all processed `DomInstances`.

In case the entire operation fails (e.g. when the storage layer fails while storing the data) a `CrudFailedException` is thrown. If, in that case, `ThrowExceptionsOnErrorData` was set to false, these calls will return `null` and the `TraceData` of the last call should be checked to get more details about the issue. For information on how to implement this flow, refer to the [Unexpected issue example](xref:DOM_BulkProcessing_Example#unexpected-issue).

> #### Maximum number of instances

Reviewer 3: I'm a little confused by this section: the way I understand it, there is a limit of 100 instances, but there is also a limit defined in the MaxAmountBulkOperation property. How should I understand the difference between the two? Is the property used to define a stricter limit than the 100?

Author: The maximum number of DomInstances that can be passed to CreateOrUpdate and Delete is indeed 100. That same number is defined in MaxAmountBulkOperation. That property can't be changed, but that way it's easier to remember and to consult it.
Instead of hardcoding 100, that property can be used instead.

}
```

### Multiple instances

When multiple `DomInstances` need to get created, updated, or deleted, we recommend calling the *CreateOrUpdate* or *Delete* methods on a `DomInstance` CRUD helper component with a list of those `DomInstances`. This feature is available from DataMiner 10.4.2/10.5.0 onwards<!-- RN 37891 -->.

For example, to create or update multiple `DomInstances`:

```csharp
// Create or update a list of DomInstances
var createResult = helper.DomInstances.CreateOrUpdate(domInstances);
```

> *CreateOrUpdate* will consider `DomInstances` that are stored already as `DomInstances` that need an update. The remaining `DomInstances` will be created. A mix of both is allowed.

Reviewer 4: I had to read this sentence a couple of times, before it became clear. Is it correct that the main message is that if you provide DomInstances that already exist that these will be considered as an update? And if they don't exist yet, that they will be created?

Author: ```suggestion
*CreateOrUpdate* will consider the provided `DomInstances` that already exist as updates, the other `DomInstances` will be created. It is supported to provide a mix of both.
```
